title:          Exposure
ID:             339
type:           md
compile:        2


Sometimes the true danger when adventuring is extreme temperatures. Exposure EV is equal to 1 per 10ºC the temperature falls below 10ºC or rises above 30ºC, and doubles for each hour that the character experiences the extreme temperature. Each hour the character must make resistance rolls against all three types of damage (Focus, Injury, and Morale). Recoveries cannot be taken until the character is able to equalize temperatures. Treat extremely wet weather, or a character who has gotten wet as 10ºC colder than it really is.

If the environment is cold, the character also risks frostbite from long-term exposure. Frostbite exists in four stages. The signals of stage one are itching and numbness in the afflicted areas, but is mostly cosmetic, healing back to normal in (10 – Stamina) days. First degree frostbite occurs in the extremities (fingers, toes) when a character has taken a Scratched condition from the environment. Second degree frostbite occurs when the top layers of flesh actually freeze, but the inner parts of the body remain alive, blistering and turning black as they heal, but returning mostly to normal in (10 – Stamina) weeks. After healing back the tissue remains insensitive to both heat and cold. Second degree frostbite sets into tissues affected by first degree frostbite when a character has a Wounded condition, and the first degree frostbite spreads (hands, feet, nose, ears).

Third degree frostbite occurs when the deep tissues of the body part freeze. At this point the flesh takes on a waxy feel and if help arrives at this point saving the affected body part requires a successful First Aid roll. If the First Aid roll is successful, the affected body part heals back in (10 – Stamina) months, although it loses all feeling, and is typically deformed and discolored permanently. If the roll is not successful the only option is amputation within a number of days equal to Stamina to avoid gangrene. Third degree frostbite sets into tissues affected by second degree frostbite when a character has gained an Impaired condition due to exposure, and the frostbite expands, with previously first degree tissues becoming second degree, and first degree frostbite spreading to the lower arms, lower legs, and face.

The final, fourth degree of frostbite occurs if the character continues receiving exposure damage. When fourth degree frostbite sets in there is no saving the frozen body parts, and they may even fall off after enough time. If help finally arrives for the character there is no choice; amputation of the affected body parts within the first day of being rescued or gangrene will set in. Fourth degree frostbite sets in to tissues affected by third degree frostbite when the character takes the Disabled condition from exposure damage, and the rest of the frostbitten tissues upgrade and spread as before.

Note that a wounded character stranded in extreme cold may go unconscious before suffering even the first degree of frostbite. However, once the character goes unconscious they progress through the stages of frostbite each hour without the ability to make a Stamina roll.