title:          Pursuit
ID:             326
type:           md
compile:        2


The primary mode of the chase rules are called Pursuit, which is defined as the hunted still within sight but outside of the hunter’s full movement speed. Pursuit is handled as a series of active Athletics rolls, with both Degrees of Success and Degrees of Failure counting toward an overall Pursuit Talley. The pursuit talley is an abstraction of the distance between the characters in the chase and it goes from 1 to 10 and starts at 5. With each roll this talley grows and shrinks based on the results, with the hunter’s Degrees of Success reducing the pursuit talley his Degrees of Failure increasing the talley. This is reversed for the hunted. The pursuit talley falling below 1 means the hunter may attempt to interpose, while the talley growing above 10 means the hunted either gets away, or the Tracking phase begins.

The hunted character can attempt to place obstacles in the hunter’s path, such as pulling over objects as they pass, pushing through a crowd, or leaping over objects, etc. These impose a penalty on the hunters roll, or can grant a bonus to the hunted’s roll, depending on which one the player is (remember players make all rolls). If the character is trying to do something fancy then the GM may roll they need to make an Acrobatics roll, with the results becoming a bonus or penalty on the current Athletics rolls. If neither side is able to definitively pull away in a number of rolls equal to twice the lowest Resolve or Stamina between the two sides then whichever character owns that lowest value loses automatically as they either lose the will to continue running or become exhausted and cannot carry on. These rolls do not have a specific length but are more narrative in length, with each roll being a new opportunity for the chase dynamic to change.