title:          Addiction
ID:             1230
type:           md
compile:        2



A character with a physical addiction not only wants a substance, but his body actually needs it. A minor physical addiction will drive a character to lie, cheat, and steal to obtain the focus of their addiction, while a major physical addiction means nothing is off-limits so long as they can end their craving. While mentally addicted characters may act because they want a positive feeling (i.e. a release, a euphoric feeling, a high) which they perceive as something they need, a physically addicted character is simply trying to stave off withdrawal. Symptoms of physical withdrawal are often quite nasty, including fever, intense pain, shaking, nausea, and sometimes even breathing trouble. A minor addiction either has a fairly long period between its needed uses (a week or so) or is fairly readily available (costs less than $20 in modern currency), while a major addiction is either experienced regularly (nearly everyday) or significantly hard to acquire. Missing a dose imparts a -2 penalty for all actions for a minor addiction or a -4 penalty for a major addiction, cumulative for each missed dose. After three missed doses the character is clean (the disadvantage no longer applies) however, unlike most disadvantages, it does not go away. After getting clean a character coming back into contact with the object of his addiction (just being around it, not even consuming it) must make a Resolve + Composure roll with a -2 penalty for a minor addiction or a -4 for a major addiction or loose control and binge on it, reactivating their addiction. This requirement follows the character for a few months to a year for a minor addiction, or the rest of their life for a major addiction unless the GM allows the permanent removal through some story-related method such as psychiatric help or perhaps a religious experience, but treat this scenario with caution, real addictions haunt addicts for years.
