title:          Virtue
ID:             636
type:           md
compile:        2



With some game genres it’s not enough to say your character is a good person. Sometimes it is desirable to say your character’s morality is some discernible level and thus gives you a certain bonus (or penalty) to her actions. Maybe this is a certain type of fantasy game where the concept of good and evil have real tangible manifestations (angels, demons, and the like) or perhaps the character’s abilities represent the philosophical concepts of light and dark in some way. Regardless of the reason you might want such a thing, you do, and so here is a flexible system to let you model those kinds of ideals in VERS.

Virtue is an eleven rank scale from -5 to 5, where -5 represents the deepest darkest depths of depravity and perversion and 5 represents the pinnacle of saintliness and righteousness. By default a character starts at 0 as an average person who is neither appreciably virtuous or vice-ridden.

In certain social situations the GM may decide that a character’s Virtue would play a part in the interaction, coloring their socialization by offering a bonus equal to their current Virtue rank on any social rolls the character makes. In this way a virtuous character would find another virtuous character more agreeable, while similarly finding an unvirtuous person repugnant in action or words. In the same way, two characters who are both unvirtuous may find more ease in each other’s presence, and the penalty can act as a bonus as well. This isn’t guaranteed, however, because villians often can’t stand each other much more than a good person might, it depends on the setting and the parameters chosen for the Virtue. Please note that a successful Deception roll (penalized by how many ranks the character’s actual Virtue is away from where she wants the other character to perceive her Virtue) can remove those penalties or even turn the penalty into a bonus.

Characters gain or lose Virtue when the character engages in an activity that the GM declares relevant to Virtue, such as donating time to work the local soup kitchen or mugging an old man. In the case of gaining or losing Virtue, the GM calls on the player to make a Mental Defense roll penalized by their Virtue score if it is in alignment with the action (a good person doing a good deed) or as a bonus if it is against their current Virtue (a good person cheating the system). Success means that the character’s Virtue moves one rank in the direction of the action. It’s harder to become more Virtuous if you are already Virtuous, while a small good deed could go a long way towards the path of righteousness for the unvirtuous.

It is also important to note that increasing or decreasing one’s Virtue requires increasingly powerful actions. Buying a burger for a homeless guy is enough to move from 0 to 1, but it takes an action like donating the character’s entire inheritance to charity to go from 4 to 5. Virtue is not accumulated by repeating the same actions either. Once a character has performed an action it will not affect his Virtue again, unless the GM declares it is sufficiently different or it is dramatically appropriate (a coming full circle type of moment, for instance). It’s for this reason that most characters settle into a comfortable range where their normal day-to-day activities do not challenge their Virtue anymore.

For the purposes of this system good is defined as altruism or self-sacrifice while evil is defined as selfishness and greed. Your game may require some different definition, such as “authority-freedom,” “piety-impiety,” or something else entirely such as political leaning like “liberal-conservative” which (for most people) has no good/evil correlation, so much as being based on opinion. It is also possible to map Virtue to more than one dichotomy, for example using both “good-evil” and “authority-freedom” dichotomies, in which each pair would have its own range and value and would offer its mechanical benefits when appropriate situations arise. In the case of using multiple Virtue axis, the character can only get the benefit of one if more than one would apply to a given situation or action.
